.TH pamusb-conf 1 "May 2026" "" "PAM_USB"

.SH NAME
\fBpamusb-conf \fP- pam_usb configuration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBpamusb-conf\fP [\fB--verbose\fP] [\fB--config\fP=path] [\fB--help\fP |
\fB--add-user\fP=name [\fB--superuser\fP] |
\fB--add-device\fP=name [\fB--device\fP=number \fB--volume\fP=number] |
\fB--reset-pads\fP=name | \fB--list-devices\fP | \fB--list-volumes\fP]
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpamusb-conf\fP is a tool designed to help generating the pam_usb configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\fB--help\fP, \fB-h\fP
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B
\fB--verbose\fP, \fB-v\fP
Verbose output
.TP
.B
\fB--config\fP, \fB-c\fP
Use the given configuration file (defaults to /etc/security/pam_usb.conf)
.TP
.B
\fB--add-device\fP, \fB-d\fP
Add a device
.TP
.B
\fB--add-user\fP, \fB-u\fP
Add a user (you can call this multiple times, to add multiple devices for a single user)
.TP
.B
\fB--superuser\fR (only in combination with --add-user)
Mark the device as superuser-capable by adding the \fIsuperuser="true"\fR attribute to the <device> element in the configuration. Required for services configured with \fI<option name="superuser">true</option>\fR (e.g. sudo, su).
.TP
.B
\fB--yes\fP, \fB-y\fP
Assume "yes" as answer for every question
.TP
.B
\fB--device\fR (only in combination with --add-device)
Use the given device index (starting at 0)
.TP
.B
\fB--volume\fR (only in combination with --add-device)
Use the given volume index (starting at 0)
.TP
.B
\fB--list-devices\fR
Gives a numbered list of usable devices, for use with --device / packaging scripts
.TP
.B
\fB--list-volumes\fR
Gives a numbered list of usable volumes, for use with --volume / packaging scripts
.TP
.B
\fB--reset-pads\fR
Deletes all relevant key files for the given user (this needs the device to be actually connected)
.SH NOTES
.SS Remote desktop detection and the input group
When \fBremote_desktop_check\fR is enabled (the default), pam_usb scans
\fI/dev/input\fR for virtual input devices to detect active remote desktop
sessions.  This scan requires read access to the device nodes, which are
normally restricted to root and members of the \fBinput\fR group.
.PP
Packages install a small setgid helper,
\fI/usr/lib/pam_usb/pamusb-evdev-helper\fR, that is owned by
\fBroot:input\fR with the setgid bit set.  pam_usb uses this helper
automatically so that the check works for non-root users without any manual
group assignment.
.PP
If the helper is not available (e.g.\ a manual installation without setgid
setup), the scan falls back to direct device access.  In that case the user
must be a member of the \fBinput\fR group:
.PP
.nf
    sudo usermod -aG input \fIusername\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBWARNING:\fR Membership in the \fBinput\fR group grants read access to
\fIall\fR input devices, including keyboards.  Any process run by that user
can read raw keyboard events — effectively keylogger-level access.  Use this
only on trusted, single-user systems and prefer the setgid helper approach
wherever possible.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on the Github issue tracker at https://github.com/mcdope/pam_usb/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrea Luzzardi <scox@sig11.org>, Tobias Bäumer <tobiasbaeumer@gmail.com>
