.TH pamusb-agent 1 "May 2026" "" "PAM_USB"

.SH NAME
\fBpamusb-agent \fP- pam_usb event handler, triggers configured commands on device removal and/or plug.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBpamusb-agent\fP [\fB--help\fP] [\fB--config\fP=path] [\fB--daemon\fP] [\fB--check\fP=path]
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpamusb-agent\fP is in charge of executing commands upon device insertion (once
authenticated through pam_usb) and removal.
.PP
Please note that it's not intended to be manually run but to be started by your init system
as a system service.
.PP
See the wiki at https://github.com/mcdope/pam_usb/wiki/Configuration#agent for more information
on how to setup \fBpamusb-agent\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\fB--help\fP, \fB-h\fP
Show summary of options.
.TP
\fB--config\fP, \fB-c\fP
Use the given configuration file (defaults to /etc/security/pam_usb.conf)
.TP
\fB--daemon\fP, \fB-d\fP
Run \fBpamusb-agent\fP in the background.
.TP
.B
\fB--check\fP, \fB-c\fPd
Set the path to pamusb-check (defaults to /usr/bin/pamusb-check)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBpamusb-agent\fP runs event handler commands (\fI<cmd>\fP) as the user specified in the configuration (privileges are dropped to that user's UID/GID before execution).
To prevent privilege escalation via dynamic linker or interpreter injection, the following
environment variables are stripped from the subprocess environment before execution:
.PP
.RS
.TP
Linker:
\fBLD_PRELOAD\fP, \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fP, \fBLD_AUDIT\fP, \fBLD_DEBUG\fP, \fBGLIBC_TUNABLES\fP
.TP
Interpreters:
\fBPYTHONPATH\fP, \fBPERL5LIB\fP, \fBRUBYLIB\fP
.TP
Shell:
\fBIFS\fP, \fBCDPATH\fP, \fBENV\fP, \fBBASH_ENV\fP, \fBPATH\fP
.RE
.PP
Any variable not in this blocklist that is declared via \fI<env>\fP in the configuration is passed through unchanged.
.SH LOGGING
\fBpamusb-agent\fP logs to syslog using the tag \fIpamusb-agent\fP.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on the Github issue tracker at https://github.com/mcdope/pam_usb/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrea Luzzardi <scox@sig11.org>, Tobias Bäumer <tobiasbaeumer@gmail.com>
