.TH pinentry-pamusb 1 "May 2026" "" "PAM_USB"

.SH NAME
\fBpinentry-pamusb \fP- pam_usb tool to be used as pinentry application
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpinentry-pamusb\fP [\fB--install\fP | \fB--uninstall\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpinentry-pamusb\fP is a tool to unlock your GPG keyring when used with pam_usb autologin.
When invoked without options it operates as a pinentry program (communicating via the Assuan protocol on stdin/stdout).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--install\fP
Create the envfile (\fI~/.pamusb/.pinentry.env\fP) with a template configuration (permissions 0600) and, if \fBupdate-alternatives\fP(1) is available, register and activate \fBpinentry-pamusb\fP as the system pinentry alternative.
The envfile is always created in the invoking user's home directory (using \fBSUDO_USER\fP when run via sudo).
The \fBupdate-alternatives\fP step requires root privileges.
.TP
\fB--uninstall\fP
Remove the envfile (\fI~/.pamusb/.pinentry.env\fP) and, if \fBupdate-alternatives\fP(1) is available, deregister the \fBpinentry-pamusb\fP pinentry alternative.
The envfile path is resolved via \fBSUDO_USER\fP when run via sudo.
The \fBupdate-alternatives\fP step requires root privileges.
.SH CONFIGURATION
\fBpinentry-pamusb\fP reads its configuration from \fI~/.pamusb/.pinentry.env\fP (mode 0600,
created by \fB--install\fP).
The file is sourced as a shell environment file and supports the following variables:
.TP
.B PINENTRY_PASSWORD
The password that will be returned to \fBgpg-agent\fP(1) via the Assuan protocol when
pam_usb authentication succeeds.
.TP
.B PINENTRY_FALLBACK_APP
Absolute path to an alternative pinentry program (e.g. \fI/usr/bin/pinentry-gnome3\fP) that
is invoked when pam_usb authentication fails.
Must be an absolute path.
.PP
For further setup details see the pam_usb Wiki <https://github.com/mcdope/pam_usb/wiki/Getting-Started#auto-unlock-your-gpg-keys>.
.SH BUGS
Please post bug reports on the Github issue tracker.
.SH AUTHOR
Tobias Bäumer <tobiasbaeumer@gmail.com>
